# Run your Docker containers for free in the cloud and for an unlimited time (for now)

Having a place other than your own machine to run Docker containers can be handy. It helps you speed up the development of your personal projects or relieve your machine of heavy lifting. Oracle Cloud has offered a free tier and it's free for now.


## Check the supported always free services:

- 2 AMD‑based Compute VMs with 1/8 OCPU and 1 GB memory each
or
- 4 Arm‑based Ampere A1 cores and 24 GB of memory usable as one VM or up to 4 VMs

And:
- 2 Block Volumes, 200 GB total
- 10 GB Object Storage‑Standard
- 10 GB Object Storage‑Infrequent Access
- 10 GB Archive Storage
- Resource Manager: managed Terraform
- 5 OCI Bastions

As you can see, they are very generous with their free tier, and we can do a lot with this.

## Create your remote Docker service

After cloning this repository,

### 1. Create an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure account (just follow [this link](https://signup.cloud.oracle.com/)).

### 2. [Install terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli?in=terraform/oci-get-started).

### 3. [Install OCI CLI](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/SDKDocs/cliinstall.htm).

### 4. [Configure OCI credentials](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/oci-build?in=terraform/oci-get-started).

### 5. Configure your Dynamic DNS

If you want to access the OCI compute instance using a Dynamic DNS domain name compatible with ddclient, configure variables `ddns_username`, `ddns_password` and `ddns_hostname` in `local.tfvars`. I have prepared `ddclient.conf` for deSEC (https://desec.io), a European free DDNS service.

### 6. Create remote environment

As you can suspect by now, we are going to use Terraform to provision our Docker service. Basically, Terraform will create one VM instance as big as the free tier allows us, and make it ready so we can SSH into the machine with Docker ready to start our containers.

Check variables in `local.tfvars` and `variables.tf` files to get the desired compute instance, user names for SSH access, or your Dynamic DNS domain.

Execute the following commands:

```
oci session authenticate
```

- Select server in which you registered
- Authenticate with web browser
- Store session profile with a name or `DEFAULT`

```
terraform init
terraform apply -var-file="local.tfvars"
```

When `terraform apply` command is executed, the following files are generated in the root of this repository:
- `ssh_docker-remote`
    - Configuration file which path can be added to `~/ssh/config` file
    ```
    Include /path/to/remote-docker/ssh_docker-remote
    ```
- `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub`
    - Enables key‑based authentication on the remote host. Password‑based authentication is disabled.

If you get an error like this:

```
timeout -- last error: dial tcp IP_ADDRESS:22: connect: connection refused
```

Try to add the `id_rsa` generated by Terraform to your SSH agent (`ssh-add id_rsa`) and run `terraform apply` one more time.

If you were able to reach this point, you now have a VM running that you can use for whatever you want (check Oracle's terms and conditions for this service). At the end of the process, Terraform is configured to show the public IP of the newly created instance.

Connect to the remote server using SSH (using IP or host name) and run `docker ps` to check if Docker is running as expected.

```
ssh docker-remote1
docker ps
```

## Permit access from the internet

Although configuration in `networks.tf` allows access to/from all ports (via ingress and egress rules), Oracle versions of virtual machines disable internet access on most ports with a firewall. Ports in the firewall must be [opened separately](https://dev.to/armiedema/opening-up-port-80-and-443-for-oracle-cloud-servers-j35). Set the `open_ports` variable in `variables.tf` with the ports that need to be exposed. `cloudinit.tf` will create a script with an iptables rule to open those ports, which is executed in the created virtual machine.

## Deploying your container

OK, now you want to start running containers there from your local machine, but you also run some containers locally for whatever reason. So we need to do it in a way that is easy to switch between the two contexts.

Docker has a tool embedded in its client; to check the contexts that you have available, run:

```
docker context ls
```

Let's create a context for our remote Docker service:

```
docker context create remote --docker "host=ssh://docker@<Host in ssh_docker-remote file>"
```

Now if you list your contexts again you should see your newly created context. The next step is to switch between contexts:

```
docker context use remote
```

If no errors were reported, now you can run any command that you would normally do locally. To check if it is working, try to deploy a Nginx container.

```
docker run -d -p 8080:80 nginx 
```

If the remote context can't be used (for any reason), which happens in WSL environments, you can tell Docker explicitly on which context the container should be run.

```
 docker --context remote run -d -p 80:80 nginx
```

After this you should be able to open it in your browser: `http://IP_PROVIDED_BY_TERRAFORM` (or `http://ddns_hostname`) and you should see the default `index.html` from Docker.
